---
name: brand-system
description: "Shaq Hardy's personal brand system for all visual and written content. Use this skill whenever creating any branded deliverable: YouTube thumbnails, channel banners, social media graphics, slide decks, documents, PDFs, website pages, email templates, event materials, promotional graphics, or any content that needs to follow Shaq's brand identity. Also trigger when the user asks to 'make it on brand,' references brand colors or fonts by name, asks for 'a thumbnail,' 'a banner,' 'graphics,' 'slides,' 'a flyer,' or any visual asset. Trigger when creating any .pptx, .docx, .pdf, or .html file that represents Shaq Hardy's brand. If the user asks for content that will be seen by an audience (not internal notes), use this skill."
---

# Shaq Hardy Brand System

Read this skill before creating any branded deliverable. Every design choice points toward faithfulness, not virality.

## Brand Identity

**No logo.** The brand is Shaq Hardy, carried by voice, color, and typography. No ox icon. No wordmark. Identity comes from consistent application of this system.

**Tagline:** Cultivate. Grow with intention.

**Calling Statement:** Preaching the Word. Teaching the truth. Cultivating faithfulness.
Use exactly as written. Periods included.

**Tone:** Shepherded, calm, serious, patient.
**Not:** Influencer, activist, hype-driven, productivity guru.

This brand speaks quietly and confidently. It assumes depth. It doesn't beg for attention.

## Color System

The palette is intentionally small. Three colors that do the work, and one quiet neutral for documents and secondary elements. That's it.

### Primary Colors (70% of any design)

| Color | Hex | Role |
|-------|-----|------|
| Black | #000000 | Backgrounds, text, headers, primary surfaces. The dominant color on screen. |
| Warm Cream | #F7F3E9 | Text on dark backgrounds, light page backgrounds, contrast surfaces. Not pure white. Warm. |

### Accent Color

| Color | Hex | Role |
|-------|-----|------|
| Terracotta | #CC5500 | The one pop color. Emphasis words in thumbnails, divider lines, buttons, callout accents. If something needs to stand out, it's terracotta. |

### Neutral

| Color | Hex | Role |
|-------|-----|------|
| Warm Stone | #8C8279 | Scripture references, metadata, secondary text, subtle borders, table headers in documents. The quiet color that holds things together without demanding attention. |

### Rules

- Black and Cream do the heavy lifting. Everything else is accent.
- Terracotta is the only pop color. Use it sparingly so it keeps its impact.
- Warm Stone is for things that need to be visible but shouldn't compete: references, captions, dates, metadata.
- On dark backgrounds, use Cream text. On light backgrounds, use Black text.
- Never use bright or saturated colors outside this palette.
- When in doubt, use fewer colors, not more.

## Typography

### Bebas Neue (Display / Headlines)

- Source: Google Fonts (free, open license)
- ALL CAPS only. Never use lowercase.
- Use for: headlines, section titles, navigation, banners, thumbnail text
- Never for: body copy, Scripture references, captions
- Pair with Inter for all body content

### Inter (Body / UI / Scripture References)

- Source: Google Fonts (free, open license)
- Weights: Regular (400) for body, Medium (500) for subheads, SemiBold (600) for labels
- Use for: body text, UI elements, Scripture reference citation lines (e.g., "John 3:16"), descriptions, captions
- Never use Bold (700) except for rare strong emphasis

### EB Garamond (Scripture Pull-Quotes)

- Source: Google Fonts (free, open license)
- Weights: Regular (400) for Scripture body, Italic (400) for attribution or emphasis, SemiBold (600) sparingly for key phrases within a verse
- Use for: Scripture text displayed at focal size in long-form materials only. Lead magnets, research packets, study commentary documents, printed handouts, sermon deck Scripture reveal slides, Cultivate PDF guides.
- Never for: UI, thumbnails, slide body copy, navigation, buttons, captions, or Scripture reference citation lines. Reference lines stay in Inter Warm Stone.
- Set Scripture text in Black on Cream, or Cream on Black. Never Terracotta. Never Warm Stone at display size.
- Generous line height. Minimum 1.5. Scripture needs room.
- The rule: EB Garamond only appears when Scripture is the focal point of the frame. If it is not the focal point, it is not EB Garamond.

### Pairing Pattern

- Bebas Neue ALL CAPS headline in Black or Cream
- Terracotta Bebas Neue for topic keywords or emphasis words (the word that pops)
- Inter Regular for body text
- Inter Medium for subheads and navigation
- Warm Stone Inter for Scripture reference citation lines and metadata
- EB Garamond for the actual Scripture quotation when the verse is the focal element (long-form documents and Scripture reveal moments only)

## Voice and Copy Rules

### Always

- Write like you're talking to one person across a table, not a crowd.
- Use contractions. Use plain language.
- State truth. Don't hedge theological claims.
- Use simple sentences. Let theology carry the weight.
- Prefer nouns and verbs. Cut adjectives that don't earn their place.
- Address the viewer with "you" (not "we").
- Scripture references in past tense: "Adam said" not "Adam says."
- Default to ESV translation unless specified otherwise.
- End with a challenge, a question, or a lingering image. Never summarize.

### Never

- Em dashes. Use commas, periods, or parentheses instead.
- Hype language without substance ("incredible," "amazing," "life-changing").
- Fluff transitions ("Moreover," "Furthermore," "In conclusion").
- Hooks for hooks' sake. Value first. Early drop-off is an intentional filter.
- Quotation marks around slogans or sticky statements. Let the words stand.

### Banned Words

tapestry, unleash, unlock, delve, navigate, landscape, foster, symphony, game-changer

## YouTube Specifications (What Does the Bible Say)

### Channel Banner

- Size: 2560 x 1440 px
- Safe area: 1546 x 423 px (center, visible on all devices)
- Background: Black (#000000)
- Text: Bebas Neue in Warm Cream
- Accent: Terracotta divider or accent element

### Thumbnail Framework

- Size: 1280 x 720 px
- Background: Black (#000000)
- Layout: Text left, face right (cropped at chest)
- Title text: Bebas Neue, Warm Cream, max 6 words visible
- Topic keyword: Bebas Neue, Terracotta (the word that pops)
- Scripture reference: Inter, Warm Stone, bottom left
- Must be readable at mobile size (phone screen)
- High contrast. No clutter.

### Profile Picture

- Size: 800 x 800 px minimum
- Cropped headshot, face centered, dark background
- Must be clear at small sizes (32px mobile rendering)
- Consistent across all platforms

### Video

- Resolution: 1920 x 1080 px (16:9) for standard
- Shorts/Reels: 1080 x 1920 px (9:16)

## Imagery Guidelines

- Muted tones, natural light, not studio-bright
- Real environments: desk, books, plants, Chemex. Not stock photos.
- Dark backgrounds preferred. Black or near-black keeps focus on subject and text.
- Authentic expression. Serious when teaching, warm when connecting.
- No dramatic filters or heavy color grading.

## Layout Principles

- White space over ornament. Let content breathe.
- Never crowd Scripture. Give Bible references room.
- Consistent margins: 60px minimum on all sides (digital), 0.75in (print).
- Left-aligned body text. Headers may center on banners only.
- One focal point per frame: face, Scripture, or title.

## Content Pillars

1. Deep Dive Bible Study
2. Personal Circumstances and Trauma (Biblical Lens)
3. Christian Life Practical Wisdom

## File Creation Notes

When building branded files (.pptx, .docx, .pdf, .html):

- Always attempt to use Bebas Neue, Inter, and EB Garamond fonts. Download from Google Fonts or npm (@fontsource/bebas-neue, @fontsource/inter, @fontsource/eb-garamond) and convert woff2 to ttf if needed using fonttools.
- If brand fonts are unavailable, use Liberation Sans (Bold for headlines, Regular for body) as fallback for Bebas and Inter. For EB Garamond, fall back to Liberation Serif or another Garamond-style serif. Never use a generic system serif like Times New Roman.
- EB Garamond is only loaded when the deliverable contains focal Scripture. Short-form assets (thumbnails, social graphics, UI screens) should not include EB Garamond in the font stack.
- Set document/page background to Cream (#F7F3E9) for light themes or Black (#000000) for dark themes.
- Apply color system to all UI elements: buttons, dividers, accent lines, etc.
- For HTML/React artifacts, import brand fonts via Google Fonts CDN or bundled files.

## What This Brand Is Not

- Not a content machine
- Not a movement brand
- Not a productivity system
- Not a nonprofit identity (Orphan No More has its own identity)
- Not a personal hype platform
